# Administrator Guide

```{toctree}
:hidden: true

admins/google-calendar
admins/outlook-365
admins/mac-calendar
admins/facebook
admins/writing-good-event-descriptions
admins/common-concerns
```

PlaceCal Administrators (admin) support the Managers. They are the
people who update the events listings and other information directly.
They might also be responsible for other tasks like running the
reception desk or answering phone calls. It’s possible to be a Manager
and an Admin.

As an Admin, you’re ultimately responsible for updating your
organisation’s listings in PlaceCal. The main way you will be doing this
is through the calendar software you are already using. In the future,
you’ll be able to update general information about your organisation as
well.

This guide walks you through some of the core concepts behind how
PlaceCal works. You’ll find detailed advice on publishing events and
learn new tips about getting the support you need.

## Update once, publish everywhere.

The core design principle of PlaceCal is to make it as simple as
possible for you to get your events in front of the largest number of
people.

Unlike other platforms such as Facebook or Eventbrite (which require you
to use their own app), PlaceCal works directly using the software you
already have in your organisation. This means it can take a little bit
longer to get set up – but once you’re rolling everything you update is
imported automatically into PlaceCal.

Before getting started with any new software, think about how it might
be easiest for you to keep events updated. Let us deal with the rest.

**If you already publish a complete and up-to-date events listing on
your organisation’s website,** then stop here and [send us an
email](mailto:support@placecal.org). It’s possible that you already
have everything we need work with. We can instruct your IT person or
team how to import the information directly from your website.

If you already have a partial online calendar that has some – but not
all – of your events, we can use that as a starting point. Maybe you use
Facebook for all your big events, but don’t include smaller the
day-to-day events as it’s too much hassle.

If you don’t have any online calendar at all, then check out our guides
on how to set one up using technology your organisation probably already
has.
