# PlaceCal Glossary

**Partners** are the organisations who work in an neighbourhood. They
might be health providers, unincorporated community groups, housing
associations, tenants’ groups, or other groups with a social cause.

**Partner Managers** (or simply **Managers**) manage the day-to-day
running of their organisation (Partner). They might be involved in the
legal structure of the organisation, or not.

**Partner Admins** (or simply **Admins**) are often delegated to by
Managers and are the people who update the information directly. They
might do other tasks such as run a reception desk or answer phone calls.
Sometimes they do it themselves (and are both Managers and Admins).

**Places** are physical locations open to the public that Partners are
based in or manage. These Places are often the public face of a Partner,
often being the physical building that the Partner inhabits. Sometimes,
the Partner and the Place have the same name – this can get confusing!

**Events** take place in Places. Events map directly from your online
calendar to PlaceCal.

**Calendars** are powered by your existing event management software
such as Google Calendar, Outlook 365, or Facebook. If you’re a larger
organisation this might be a bigger system like Artifax, Jadu, or
Drupal, or a custom website just for you. Calendars create Events, which
can be assigned to Places and Partners, allowing Citizens to look at all
the events in one Place, or all the events organised by one Partner.

**Secretaries** support Partner Managers and Admins. They are local
community development workers who help Partners get all the information
about their organisation and their Places on PlaceCal. Secretaries can
create Places and Partners in PlaceCal, create user accounts, and are
available on the phone to chat to for support.

**Sites** are the individual PlaceCal instances (like
`hulme.placecal.org`) that residents use. They show information about
the area and who is managing it, and a range of Turfs.

**Turfs** are the neighbourhood regions (Hulme, Moston) or interest
groups (Cycling, Age Friendly) that Secretaries manage. These allow
Secretaries to decide what to show on their Sites.

**Commissioners** are the people who fund PlaceCal and want to use it to
help people work together in their region. They commission one or more
Turfs, by funding us to train a Secretary (employed by you or us), and
funding our **PlaceCal Developers** to update and maintain the site.
