Co-creation: developing the PlaceCal prototype
==============================================

PlaceCal has already been researched thoroughly so we know that there’s
a need for it in Greater Manchester.

Read on to find out more about the PlaceCal prototype.

## Funding from CityVerve

Before we even started, PlaceCal needed funding.

Working together with resident-led Age Friendly Hulme and Moss Side
Partnership, we secured innovation funding for a PlaceCal MVP. It came
from CityVerve, a Smart City accelerator program in Manchester.

The two awards from CityVerve totalled £86,000 which was enough to get
started with a pilot. It enabled us to explore the issues surrounding
information sharing and dissemination with a range of different
stakeholders.

These included older adults, community group managers, and local
authority employees.

Identifying a need
------------------

During the exploration phase we conducted extensive fieldwork.

Our CityVerve PlaceCal fieldwork shows that there are many different
incomplete, inaccurate and poorly produced information sources in a
neighbourhood. These range from flyers and posters, to bulk email chains
and poorly maintained websites.

Even worse, many small local organisations and venues are *not at all
able* to publish information about their activities. There’s a distinct
lack of IT training, infrastructure, and suitable tools for these
community groups.

50% of community organisations don’t have a website at all, let alone an
up-to-date one. That means many residents can’t find out what’s going on
if they’re not already :doc:`socially connected <digital-inclusion>`.

Budget-friendly
---------------

Money for resources is a huge barrier for community organisations.
Under-resourced and extremely time-strapped, most don’t have the budget
or time to effectively commission and maintain websites.

They’re also not yet supported to work locally with others who can. That
means it’s extremely hard for standard, single-approach interventions to
become established with many organisations duplicating efforts.

We needed a cost-effective way for these groups to work together in a
timely and efficient manner.

Helping the NHS
---------------

We found that many older people are approaching the health services out
of loneliness. GPs want to connect these people with local events but
lack the resources to do so.

An NHS England survey found that 40% of GPs would “socially prescribe” –
send patients to community groups if they had access to the right
information.

*Check out our* :doc:`case studies </introduction/who-is-using-placecal>` 
*for PlaceCal users.*

Field research
--------------

Many software tools needed to publish information online already exist.
It quickly became clear from our research that these tools were not
suitable for most small groups’ use, that there was a chronic lack of
tech skills across the sector, and that there was a lack of access to
joined-up information sharing services.

We realised PlaceCal’s success would hinge on finding a method by which
the social development could work in unison with the technological.

The goal is fruitful collaboration across providers in a way that
benefits older residents, that is budget-friendly and avoids
duplication.

PlaceCal launch
---------------

After four months’ fieldwork, gathering direct input from older people
into the design, development and training requirements, PlaceCal
emerged.

Our specific ‘capability’ research approach enabled us to discover and
respond to the complex capabilities, barriers and opportunities for the
creation of organised, reliable community information between residents,
community groups and institutional stakeholders.

In December 2017 we launched PlaceCal in our pilot area, Hulme and Moss
Side, at a joint community event attended by hundreds of residents,
schools and religious organisations.
