Common Concerns
===============

What calendar software should I use?
------------------------------------

PlaceCal is designed to work with the tools you already use for your
events. Usually this is part of your web-based office suite, such as
Office 365 or Google’s G Suite. We’ve consciously designed it this way
to need as little extra training as possible on your end. You can also
stick with your existing accounts and settings – if you already use
Outlook 365, GMail or G Suite, your calendar application can integrate
with other applications.

In most cases if you don’t currently use anything or have a pen and
paper solution, we recommend using Google. You can create a simple GMail
account for free that has all the functionality you need. We think
Google Calendar is the simplest to use, and it also has the best sharing
and collaboration options to make it easy to work with other people.

The one exception to this guideline is that If almost all your events
are organised by other people it is worth considering using Facebook for
events. For example, if you are a pub, theatre or general open community
space, and most of your events are organised by people who already use
Facebook, then this might be a better option for you. Facebook allows
other people to create events and add them to your calendar in a
well-formatted way. This route requires regular use of Facebook to get
the most out of though.

What are the risks associated with publishing my data?
------------------------------------------------------

It’s normal to have concerns about publishing information. Don’t be too
scared though: it’s the same level of risk as publishing a poster or a
flyer – and you can update it retrospectively. As long as you make sure
that all the information you publish doesn’t contain any sensitive
information you’ll be fine.

If you already maintain a calendar for your organisation, it’s likely
that it contains a lot of information unfit for public consumption. In
this case you have two choices: either to create a second public
calendar (recommended), or edit all the sensitive information out of
your existing one.

**Creating a new calendar**. Most software supports having multiple
calendars visible at the same time, usually in different colours. We
suggest naming one calendar “Your Organisation - Public” and one “Your
Organisation - Private”. This means you can have a clear separation
between your public information and any notes you might have on your
private version. Instructions on how to do this are later on in the
document.

**Using an existing calendar**. In many cases it will be fine to have
the same information as public and private information – you just need
to make sure that people in your organisation are aware that everything
on what might seem like an internal system are being published to the
web.

It’s worth noting there is nothing to worry about here. It’s likely you
release exactly the same information already on your flyers, posters and
other communications such as Facebook or Twitter. We do our best to spot
any potential problems before they happen – don’t hesitate to let us
know if you have any privacy concerns.

I’m struggling with capacity, should I add my events anyway?
------------------------------------------------------------

Some events have a limit on how many people can show up. We’re not
providing ticketing facilities yet, so this is something to bear in
mind.

If your event is already at capacity, then maybe don’t add it to the
calendar. If your event is nearly at capacity then maybe put a note in
the event description asking people to ring ahead.

In general though, we’d suggest erring on the side of publishing – being
on the internet by itself will not suddenly mean hundreds of people turn
up! PlaceCal is in very early days and we expect it to be more of a
gentle trickle than a stream.

How do I keep my information up to date?
----------------------------------------

It’s important to think about how you will keep information updated.
Think about how you can integrate it into your organisational workflow.
For example, maybe whoever is responsible for booking rooms makes a
mental note to update your calendar each time, or maybe once a month you
go through it to see if anything’s changed. Also have a think about how
you will make new employees and volunteers aware of your events calendar
– maybe make it part of your induction process.

The key is that the events listing should help everyone by being a
canonical source of information for your organisation. By putting a
little bit of time into keeping your calendar updated, everyone benefits
from up-to-date and accurate information.
