Philosophy
==========

Capability-based
----------------

Education and partnership working are at the core of everything we do.
PlaceCal works by training and supporting organisations to publish their
information, creating and supporting local resident-led partnerships to
help people work together, and providing the PlaceCal platform to manage
it all and respond to people’s needs.

This holistic approach to community technology creates a low social
capital social network for real world interaction: a radically
decentralised, transparent initiative managed directly by it’s citizens.
This creates both spatial and digital inclusion: fairer and more
inclusive neighbourhoods both on and offline.

Communities of place
--------------------

Our primary intended audience for PlaceCal are communities of place.
These are neighbourhood partnerships representing anything from a single
tower block to a small town. These groups work because they have a ‘real
world’ relationship of geographical proximity, typically up to around
6,000 people.

Neighbourhood partnerships form the interface between residents and
health, housing and local authority providers who then have a
coordinated way to work with people locally. What makes PlaceCal unique
is that it combines knowledge in an area across many different siloed
stakeholders and across geographic scales.

## Open source

The PlaceCal source code is free and open source: all our development is
public and transparent. All our training materials and expertise are
available under a Creative Commons license, allowing you to make your
own versions for your needs. Our technical support enables communities
to own and manage their own information.

Having all this information in one place means that it’s the perfect
information source for social prescribers like doctors, nurses, library
assistants, and social care workers to find good things to do for their
patients.

Digital Inclusion
-----------------

The core goal of PlaceCal is to create well connected neighbourhoods
that work better for older people, reduce social isolation, and increase
active citizenship. Measuring the success of our interventions is not a
simple task and has required an approach that can consider the entirety
of the relationships and information in an area.

PlaceCal is not about teaching people to use the internet as it is, or
teaching “digital skills”. It’s about redesigning the internet with a
new model that appeals to humans from all backgrounds with a wide range
of interests and needs.

Curated by humans
-----------------

Each neighbourhood or interest group has it’s own Secretary, who is the
human face of PlaceCal. Secretaries are the “curators” of PlaceCal,
working with organisations to promote events in the area as a whole.

Based on existing capacity
--------------------------

PlaceCal works with your existing technology and staff time, helping you
set something up if needed. This means that it hooks into your existing
event management software, updating itself automatically when you’re set
up.

Most people use Google Calendar, Outlook 365, or Facebook. We can also
work with your custom CMS or event API.
